I am attempting to write some software useful for pigeon racers. The "official"
webpage is at http://pauldoo.com/racepoint/, this page simply contains some
notes.

[[PageOutline]]

= Things =

Program will be used by Club and Federation secretaries only. The secretary is
in charge of all the records for the club/fed. At the beginning of each season
they update the details of all members in the program with new/updated
measurements.

Club secretaries use the program once a week on race day. Clock times are read
to the secretary, who enters the details into the race calculation program.
Currently the race result is done in it's entirety on the day - there is no
option to save and resume later. The race result, pools, averages and points
sheets are all printed - one for each member entered in the race and either
collected on the day or delivered later. When the race result is completed and
printed - THEN the option to save is given

If a race needs to be recalculated for any reason (which they have been in the
past) - The secretary has the ability to load up a previous race result and
amend it or re-print it. Hard copies of race results are usually kept by the
secretary for reference.

Club members may from time to time request copies of their measurements, so
secretaries should be able to print these. Averages and Points sheets should
also be able to be printed at any point in the season - without having to do a
race calculation.

== FED Results ==

In the fed program, two extra fields are held in the member info - their club
and their section. When a race result is calculated, the members clock details
are entered into the program in a random order. Once these have all been
entered, the user is prompted for pools values for open, east and then west. The
prize money (the money awarded for doing well in the race) is then prompted for
in the open, the east and the west. The 3 results are then printed with prize
money and an overall pools sheet. '''Averages, Points, and Performance stats are
not needed for a fed result.'''

= Averages =

The current program has space for 20 named averages. These are entered and reset
at the beginning of each season. At the end of a race result, the user is asked
if this race counts for any of the averages stored. If they say yes, they are
asked to mark which ones it counts towards. All members are automatically
entered in all averages at the beginning of the season. If they fail to clock or
don't fly the race - their name is removed from all averages that race counted
towards.


= Points =

Points are awarded to the first 10 members in the race. 10 for first place, 9
for second and so on. A member is only allowed to score points once in each
race. They are awarded their highest point value. A running total is kept for
each member throughout the season.

= Performance =

Like points, only this time they are awarded to specific ring numbers and not
members. 15 points are awarded for first place, 14 for second etc.

= *NOTE - POINTS AND PERFORMANCE VALUES CAN CHANGE FROM CLUB TO CLUB* =
 

= Pools and Nominations =

There are two types of pools, one is simply called "pools" and the other is
called "nominations". Only the method for deciding prizes is different.

There are several different competitions with different prices, birds can be
entered into more than one competition. Each prize fund will have an optional 5%
deducted before any prize calculations.

If there are not enough birds clocked to give out all the required prizes, the
overflow prizes are grouped together and divided amoungst the birds that did
enter. If no birds are clocked then the prize money is refunded (without the 5%
take?).

== Pools ==

Pools are described by saying how many entries there are per winner. So, a 1 in
20 payout will mean that for every 20 birds entered there will be a prize. (This
might not be true given the 5% deduction in prize fund first.. need to check).
Each prize is of the same ammount, that is 20 * <entry fee>. In the case that
money is left over, this goes to the next bird.

== Nominations ==

With nominations all money goes to a fixed number of birds at the top, so
perhaps a 60:40 split between the first two birds.


